a little philosophy inclineth man's mind to atheism; but depth in philosophy bringeth men's minds about to religion | Francis Bacon | The Essays: Of Atheism | 2025-07-23T19:45:36.701Z
…just as Columbus did, before his wonderful voyage across the Atlantic Ocean, when he gave the reasons for his confidence that he could find new lands and continents beyond those known already; reasons which, although rejected at first, were later proved by experiment, and became the causes and starting points of great things | Francis Bacon | Aphorism 92, Book I of Novum Organum | 2025-07-23T20:12:36.701Z
If the truth shall kill them, let them die | Ayn Rand paraphrasing Kant | Judgment Day: My Years with Ayn Rand | 2025-07-23T20:19:36.701Z
To be is to do | Kant (misattributed), ancient maxim attributed to Socrates | | 2025-07-23T20:22:36.701Z
I had to deny knowledge in order to make room for faith | Kant | Critique of Pure Reason | 2025-07-23T20:27:36.701Z
Ford was the kind of guy that when something was in the way, he found a way around it, he just got it done. He was really focused on what the customer needed, even when the customer didn’t know what they needed | Musk | Wait But Why: How Tesla Will Change The World | 2025-07-23T21:09:31.311Z
Failure can be the information you need to get where you're going | Rick Rubin | IG post | 2025-07-23T21:09:31.311Z
We aim to invest in category-defining companies with a singular conviction | Joshua Kushner | | 2025-07-23T21:16:35.056Z
We're looking for remarkable intellect, extreme focus, an obsession with the customer, unreasonable determination, especially in the face of adversity, clear and credible ambition, and usually a bit of divergence—people who don't feel the need to be liked by everybody | Neil Mehta | Colossus: The Visions of Neil Mehta | 2025-07-23T21:16:40.056Z
My unmatched perspicacity, coupled with sheer indefatigability makes me a FEARED OPPONENT IN ANY REALM OF HUMAN ENDEAVOUR | Andrew Tate | Twitter | 2025-07-25T02:53:55.822Z
The fundamental cause of trouble in the world today is that the stupid are cocksure while the intelligent are full of doubt. | Bukowski (misattributed), Bertrand Russell | Marriage and Morals | 2025-07-25T02:56:07.596Z
At a hundred and thirty pounds, Altman is poised as a clothespin, fierce as a horned owl. Even in a Valley that worships productivity, he is an outlier, plowing through e-mails and meetings as if strapped to a time bomb, his unblinking stare speeding up colleagues until they sound like chipmunks. | Tad Friend | Sam Altman’s Manifest Destiny | 2025-07-25T19:20:07.936Z
Man has a large capacity for effort. In fact it is so much greater than we think it is that few ever reach this capacity. We should value the faculty of knowing what we ought to do and having the will to do it. Knowing is easy; it is the doing that is difficult. The critical issue is not what we know but what we do with what we know. The great end of life is not knowledge, but action. I believe that it is the duty of each of us to act as if the fate of the world depended on him ... we must live for the future, not for our own comfort or success. | Admiral Hyman G. Rickover | | 2025-07-25T19:30:07.936Z
It's generally human nature to overestimate risk and underestimate opportunity | Bezos | Dealbook Summit | 2025-07-28T05:01:30.299Z
Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy | Bezos | Dealbook Summit | 2025-07-28T05:02:08.121Z
One of the strategies of dissidence in the last years of Socialism was therefore precisely to take the ruling ideology more seriously/literally than it took itself by way of ignoring its virtual unwritten shadow. | Slavoj Zizek | What's Wrong with Fundamentalism? - Part II | 2025-07-29T15:39:22.716Z
always drink upstream from the herd | Unknown | A mug at Cornell | 2025-07-29T17:06:20.467Z
Self-sacrifice? But it is precisely the self that cannot and must not be sacrificed. | Ayn Rand | The Fountainhead | 2025-07-29T20:10:43.074Z
If Men were angels, no government would be necessary. | Madison | Federalist No. 51 | 2025-07-29T22:37:11.278Z