---
title: Mimesis
date: 2025-02-08
headerImage: /mimesis.png
imageAuthor: Virgil Abloh and Takashi Murakami
imageLink: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/27/fashion/virgil-abloh-takashi-murakami-gagosian-gallery.html
---
Anyone that browses Twitter for more than a second can observe the most [blatant mimetic dynamics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mimetic_theory#:~:text=Girard%20called%20this%20phenomenon%20%22mimetic,because%20we%20imitate%20their%20desires.%22). Especially in the "contrarian" communities. 

A startup founder once said he never announces his launches on Twitter since that triggers several copies within days. It's basic market dynamics—when a firm discovers a new market, there's generally a lag time until competitive firms discover the market opportunity and enter. By launching on Twitter, that lag time is cut strongly, reducing any first-mover advantage that could have been capitalized. As the market gets more entrants, marginal revenue drops. 

E/acc, defense tech, climate tech, AI, space, ZYNs, etc. — all of these recent Twitter movements — pop up, go crazy, die out, and then land on LinkedIn months later. It's like watching species in an ecosystem birth, live their lives, and die at 100x speed. 

It feels like the mimesis is especially strong in Twitter communities. But I see it in my friends recruiting for IB and consulting too. Is that just the nature of the modern man or a product of social media, exposing people to more ideas in a single day than a typical person 100 years ago would have seen in their entire life. One TikTok scroll will show a man more pretty women than his king and ancestors would have met across a full dynasty. It's impossible to ignore it unless you cut it all off.